Yes, and welcome to this installment of Harmontown.
I know you're so upset that you're not listening to Jeff Davis right now.
He couldn't be here.
I will be guest comptrolling.
Big shoes to fill.
My name is Brandon Johnson.
We are so glad to see you again.
Let's get started.
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage Mr. Spencer Prittenton, the Dungeon
Master, King of All Kings, fresh from Martin Luther King Day celebration.
He's still drunk.
Yeah.
Welcome the mayor of Harmontown, Mr. Dan Harmon.
What can I say?
Welcome back.
Yeah.
Rap.
Rap into the beat isn't easy.
George didn't fuck Wheezy without some effort.
He had to put it in and he had to get up in the morning, go to the gym and say, I want
to rap today.
I got to put my effort in and make it my way.
I'm going to rap at the top of the show.
It's just a thing I do.
So you know, got to get the energy up.
Got to keep me on my toes.
So the show is good.
Sup.
What's up?
Yo.
Rap.
R to the A to the P. That spells rap, at least to me.
It's a word that means to rap.
Rap.
Rap it.
Everybody's rapping.
Yo.
Rap it.
R-A-P-P-I-A.
I am.
Gonna spell it another time again.
R-A-P-P-I-A.
Conjugation.
Yo.
Alright, stop.
Alright.
We can do that all night.
Thank you.
We'd like to, I like to rap at the top of the show.
It's not because they think I'm good at rapping.
It's not because I think it's a good way to start the show.
It's because they want to be flat footage as they say in D&D, right?
Yeah.
Don't love that dexterity.
Off guard.
If I come up here knowing what I'm going to do,
then it's death for everybody.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for paying $5.
If you're watching it right now, thank you for nothing.
If you're listening to it for free,
thank you for your judgment.
Thank you for your judging me.
I make a convenient target.
You're welcome.
I'm not complaining about that.
I'm 45.
All I want to do is get out.
I just want to get out.
I watched the post.
It's bad.
It's a bad movie.
Steven Spielberg is no longer a good director.
I don't know when he was good last.
I know he was good for a good long time
and that he deserves all of the credit in the world
for being a wonderful, wonderful director who
did such things as, for instance,
adapting a book about sharks into anything with empathy.
It was neat.
He would add a couple shots in it, like, oh,
there's a shark in the water, but this guy loves his kid.
Terrific.
Like, we built an empire on this.
OK, I watched the post.
You know, you suck.
It's a bad movie.
It's terrible.
Performances?
Performances bad.
Director's fault.
Good actors.
Got to be the director's fault.
I don't, like, awful.
Tom Hanks is acting like he's doing dinner theater.
He's doing a character.
I don't know what's happening in that movie.
It looks like an impression.
It looks like a crazy person showed up on your doorstep
having seen five minutes of all the president's men
and he's just, like, outside your house,
like, kicking at the door.
It's a horrible, horrible movie.
And if you like it, you're stupid.
And if you nominated it for an award, you're dumb
and you don't deserve that vote.
You got your vote wrong.
You cheated someone out of it.
It's a dumb movie.
It's terrible.
I couldn't finish watching it.
It's awful.
What's next?
Florida Project.
Ripped off.
Totally snubbed.
Fucking what?
You're using kids.
Kids are fucking monsters.
They're animals.
It's like directing cats.
You get a performance out of kids.
You're automatically nominated for best director, period.
It's not nominated.
I don't understand.
I don't get you anymore.
You're an academy.
You have one job.
What else was nominated?
Get out.
Did you finally see Get Out?
Get Out.
I enjoyed very much.
I saw it.
I'm not racist.
I liked it.
Call me by your name.
All right.
Here's the thing, kids.
I don't like it.
All right, let's just look at it this way.
Like, 2000, whatever this is, it
wasn't a year for storytelling.
I get it.
I don't see it.
Apparently, movies are just about hanging out.
And that's fine.
I kind of liked Call Me By Your Name just because you
can tell the director's good.
Three hours to show me that, I don't know.
All right, just look.
You know what?
Fine.
I don't want to talk about it anymore.
Beautiful movie, though.
I just want to shit on Spielberg's head and go,
you should know better.
Fuck you.
What is your camera fucking like?
Why did you lay down track for a shot in a restaurant?
Why would you use credence in a fucking Vietnam scene?
Are you dead?
Stop it.
Not everybody goes to work every day.
Yeah, well, then don't go to work at all.
All I want is to get out.
And there are people that have so much money that could have
been out decades ago.
And they just hang out making shit.
And I'm like, you're mocking me.
I want to die.
I just want to draw the blanket of retirement over my body.
I need one thing, $150 million.
I've calculated it.
OK, that is.
If I put that in the bank, don't mock me for my goals.
I've done the math.
How did you do the math?
Was this with the Sklar Brothers?
$150 million, I've crunched the numbers.
That means that even if I spend $2 million a year,
I can live another 75 years.
That's my math.
Yeah, good math.
So you bought a cryo.
Thank you.
I know you're being sarcastic, but thank you.
Sorry, what was Brandon saying?
I wasn't being sarcastic.
Yes, you were.
So some of that money is a cryo chamber
because 75 more years is ambitious.
There's all this inflation stuff.
I'm not mad at Spielberg.
I don't want beef.
I want beef.
I don't want Spielberg's podcast to start shooting.
We're calling you out.
Shooting over at me.
It just, look, I saw Steven.
I saw the shot where Streep comes into the restaurant.
She's meeting Tom Hanks for the first time.
I said, why did the camera go all the way to the right
and then all the way to the left and all the way to the right?
How do you mind?
You've lost your mind.
It's a scene about two people having breakfast.
You should have worked with the actors.
Tom Hanks, he's gone off the rails, which is ironic
because your camera is on fucking railroad tracks
that took three days to bolt into the floor of a restaurant
you probably put out of business or a four-walled set
that you created in Uganda because the sound
sounds more restaurant-y there.
Pay attention to your actors.
The guy's got cotton balls in his lips or something.
He's doing a weird impression of Tommy Lasorda.
I don't know what he's doing.
I don't know what Meryl Streep's doing.
I don't know what anyone in that movie's doing.
Everyone's walking around these old sets going like,
oh, I got the byline.
I got a fucking thing.
I don't understand it.
It's a weird, weird, weird movie.
And if anyone had any objectivity that go,
what is happening?
Why is this movie happening?
I don't know why I'm supposed to be watching this.
This is a weird movie.
But we don't have any objectivity.
We're just like, oh, this was designed to win an Oscar,
so we're going to nominate it for an Oscar.
It doesn't deserve an Oscar.
You're fucking insane.
It's a terrible movie.
I shut it off after a half an hour.
I can't stand it.
I couldn't hear it over me jerking off.
I had to masturbate during your movie
to make me interested in it.
It just got real Argo up in here.
Do you think it is Spielberg's attempt to make
a Scorsese type of film?
I think there may have been.
There may have been some Scorsese influences
on the goals of that movie.
Because there would be like, the people
would walk into a New York newspaper
office or something.
And then there'd be a fire hydrant
that would have a liquid spring.
And then someone would go, oh, oh, oh, and it got a defeat.
And then it was all like, everyone was lit weird.
It was like, there'd be like a little girl going like,
extra, extra.
Like, it was weird.
I don't care, though.
This is not my job.
I don't care anymore.
I just want out.
If you're hearing the sound of my voice,
and you're like, oh, Dan, I don't like you.
Join the club!
I don't want to be here anymore.
I don't want to be talking to you.
I don't want you listening to me.
I don't want to have an opinion.
I don't want my opinion to matter.
I just want money.
I just want enough money to get a fucking break.
If I had been born with the amount of money
that normal people have when they're born,
I would never have been doing this.
I would be under a rock somewhere, minding my own business.
I made myself out of dirt without permission.
What else are we talking about?
OK, real quick, though.
Where are you?
Not real quick.
Fill of time.
I don't have no show.
I'm trying to pump up controversy.
Where the fuck would you go?
Where would I go?
Where are you trying to escape to right now?
Because I know what you're talking about.
You got some post-success blues, which are real.
It's totally real to be super well-fed and happy,
and have lost the thing that made you run through the jungle.
So now you get depressed on some new shit.
You know what I mean?
It's like, if you had had, say, your appendix out,
and you've worried about that for two months,
and then they took it out, and you weren't in pain anymore,
you might have a rash that bothered you,
like your appendix used to, because we're
used to living in some sort of crazy fear, right?
Right.
So I follow you.
Where would you go to to escape you?
Bed.
Yeah.
You don't even think like, you're not going to know.
Like, there's no desert.
There's no another country like Amsterdam for two months.
No, I like the United States.
I like that when you take a shit,
it's in a bucket of water that makes the shit disappear.
They have that at Amsterdam?
Yeah.
I hear that's big in Japan.
Don't you dare high road me.
Can you brag about some dope shit we have?
No, I don't want to go to it.
I assume, you know, when people talk about, oh,
I love it in Norway or Amsterdam or whatever,
I got to assume, I think those people are lying, right?
It's got to be better here than anywhere.
Am I wrong?
What do you think?
Depends on what you're into.
If you're into, like, kicking it at, like, two or three,
you want Brazil, you want France.
If you're into, like, safety, when you walk home as drunk
as you want, you want, like, Norway, Amsterdam.
Like, you know, you can do a different kind of party
all over the planet.
All right, well, you make it sound like a party.
Not getting stabbed when you're walking home
is like a menu item.
Well, think about it like this.
If you get drunk in New York or Chicago or Los Angeles,
and you leave a bar, you leave a club,
like, you just made a mistake.
You could get stabbed.
But if you're in a foreign country,
like, the places where they're kind of decent.
Right.
But the place you just were is shitty, right?
Or it's one of three places that is open.
I don't know.
That's what I'm saying.
Isn't there a trade-off?
Yeah, the trade-off is, you can get a little clarity
in those places.
Ta-da.
But aren't you comfortable making the assumption
that for everybody's, like, mocking us,
that America's probably the best?
Like, we make an easy target.
It's like, oh, you guys suck.
Oh, you don't want to be there.
Your guns and your violence.
Totally agreed, but when we compare ourselves
to other countries, we go, like, did you know in Sweden
that you can leave your bike on the sidewalk
and just jerk off on it and, like, roll into the storm
drain, and the storm drain will take you to the nearest
hospital for free?
Like, you hear these things, and I'm not saying they're not
true, but I'm just assuming that that probably
means that, like, there's got to be some trade-off.
Like, maybe their cable sucks.
I don't know.
But that's true.
But the visit is the thing.
The thing is to, like, sort of go someplace,
look at things differently, get that perspective.
You want me to fall into the trap
where I use the only money I do have traveling around,
going, like, oh, I like the Yukon.
I like the wheat patch.
I like the turkey farm.
I got to tell you that that's the root.
When you had no money, you would.
If you had, like, $1,000, you'd spend $800 on a trip.
You would.
And then you'd be like, fuck it.
When I get back, I'll figure out how to manage this $200
into another $800.
But now you got cash.
You got nervous and shit.
So you stop taking risks.
I feel you.
No.
But it's time to, like, seriously, like, maybe take some
trips.
Dream life.
Here it is.
Bed.
California King.
Cody.
Me.
Comforter.
The dogs.
They're fine.
We'll deal with them.
Forensic files.
Netflix.
Everything.
All of it.
Everything available.
Baller shit.
Baller.
I'm going to complain about all of it.
Spielberg, you heard me.
Keep making shit.
I'll keep fucking shooting it back in your face.
What have you done?
You barfed it on me.
I'll barf it right back at you.
I enjoy it.
You enjoyed it.
You didn't suffer during that movie.
I could tell.
I watched five movies of it.
You started this.
If you were hurting while you made that movie,
I'll give you a million dollars.
You were definitely happy.
You were in a hammock.
But I want to be in bed with Cody.
Laptop for just I want to learn Maya.
I'm learning Maya right now, 3D modeling.
And just watching things.
And then I want to wake up the next morning.
And I don't want to have to go to work.
I want to stay in bed with Cody.
And then I want to stay in bed.
And then go to sleep again.
And then wake up the next day.
I want to just keep doing that.
I think you can.
That's what I'm saying.
Well, God knows I've tried.
We're trying.
But I don't.
But you can't.
You live in a house.
And the house has a mortgage.
And then the water.
And the water comes from a place.
And they go, we need our money for the water.
And there's dirt people.
They're like, oh, you have dirt.
You're going to pay your dirt rent.
The dogs have chips in their brains.
How about a garage?
Revolved out of the chips.
Give the dog cancer.
There's iron outside your fence to keep people
from getting in to spread their poor germs on you.
But the iron, if you don't replace it, it gets rusty.
There's cameras.
And the camera's got to be upgraded.
And the stereo system is never enough.
You can't just listen to Phil Collins.
You can't just press play.
And listen to fucking Phil Collins.
I was like, everything cost $200,000, $300,000, $400,000.
And then the guy that tells you all this,
he cost $50,000 a month.
And your publicist, his job is to keep you less famous
than you are.
He's like, just keep me out of the news.
$3,000 a month.
I got people paying people to pay people to pay people
to count money.
I don't care if I have.
I just want to die.
Yeah.
Not really literally die.
I want to go to sleep.
I want to hang out.
You got those new money blues.
And I'm not complaining.
It sounds a lot like I am.
It's not.
It's a real thing.
I'm only saying, during this time between 45 and 50,
I'm going to spend the next five years working
as hard as I can.
I'm going to try to bring the kids quality entertainment.
During that five years, Mr. Spielberg,
could you please stop making films or actively
start making them?
This difference you've split is offensive.
I can tell you weren't on set.
It shows.
I can tell, baby.
I'm psychic.
I've got hackdar.
I know when you weren't on set.
And to just be shipped in a pneumatic tube
from your fucking asshole to the academy,
fucking is bullshit.
Because if you shot that on an iPhone
and you were like Dominican and were like,
I made a movie about the Washington Post.
They'd be like, so?
He'd be like, Dan, I got a lawn, and I got water,
and there's a rusty fence, and I got a house I got to pay for,
and I got to sell this shit, too.
Yeah.
Well, I'm sure he's got a small army.
He's got to pay for the laser dots.
You can see all over my head right now.
Those aren't cheap.
I like Get Out.
Oh, good.
Good.
Ask her good.
No, all right.
Let's not start.
What did you like about it?
It was great.
I love that it was the guy that got out.
That sounds real.
I love it when the guy got out.
Spoilers.
Where is it?
But did the guy truly get out?
Well, I mean, I didn't see the movie.
Well, I don't know what happens.
Spoiler alert.
It's America.
I liked it.
Any Itania?
I liked Itania.
Did Itania get nominated for anything?
I don't think so.
See?
It's no country for a lot of harbors.
I'll bother to watch these young people's movies,
so I'll go like, oh, I like that.
Florida Project, oh, you know, it's
got to be hard to direct a bunch of fucking kids running
around, Willem Dafoe, you add him to it.
Just give the person a director what?
Obviously, that's a hard movie to direct.
Yeah.
And it was hot.
A nomination.
So no, no, no nomination.
Come on, you're being silly then.
Any love for Ebbing at all?
What?
The three billboards outside of Ebbing, Missouri?
Oh, boy.
You know?
No.
OK.
I watched it.
I like all the actors.
I don't, look, I'm sorry.
I don't know.
I thought it was trite.
Oh.
Oh, Spencer got those bulls.
Spencer, you loved it.
Oh, boy.
I couldn't get enough.
Those performances.
I thought there could have been two billboards.
Those billboards?
No, I think there could have been five, easy.
I thought, you know what?
Here we go.
I don't like that fucking Netflix show
but the End of the Fucking World.
I don't know anything about that show, and I hate it.
I don't like the look in that guy's eye.
I don't like anything.
Name a thing.
Try to find something I like.
I don't like anything.
Olives.
Ice cream has its moments.
Minecraft.
Minecraft is OK.
Kello One.
Kello One's song.
Come on.
I was talking about movies.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Robotop.
What about the new season of Black Mirror?
I haven't seen it.
What are you?
That's the thing.
With something threatens to be good, I don't watch it.
I haven't watched Atlanta yet.
I haven't watched Black Mirror.
You haven't watched Atlanta yet?
No, I haven't.
I'm racist.
You deserve everything that happens to you.
That show would make you so happy.
You would love it for so many reasons.
It's right up your alley.
You would love that show.
I don't want to be happy.
And also, don't wait, because I don't
know that season three and fours and fives
are going to be as good as one or two.
Oh, no.
Oh, god.
You'll be mad.
You'll be like, damn, why don't you watch a show?
It's already been going five seasons.
It's already one.
What am I going to do?
Go, oh, this show's good.
Never is going to go, oh, Dan likes that show.
It doesn't matter.
So you get the enjoyment of the show, and then what happens?
I'm trying to tell you to help me stay in bed.
Yeah, that's what we've got to do a bit.
Watch some of Atlanta stay in bed.
Forensic files.
The big sick.
Dan loves it.
I haven't seen it.
He loves it.
I haven't watched it.
I won't watch it.
I don't want to stand the chance of anybody
making me feel good.
I want to drown in hatred.
We'll just focus on the part where she gets sick.
Yeah, you can watch that over and over.
Fast forward to the, I bet she gets sick 30 minutes in.
I just want to see the sick parts.
I'm really here just for the sick parts.
Yeah, no, it's good.
It's good you guys confronted me on this.
It's like, oh, I'm not actively exposing myself to things
that I have reason to believe will be good.
So why am I complaining about things that I just
thought the post would be good?
And Stephen, can I call you Stephen?
I don't think he'd like that.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's going to be ugly in these streets.
All right.
Talking shit from Berkley?
You can watch the big sick on Pornhub.
That's what I heard.
It's true, you guys.
Thank you, Brandon Johnson, for subbing in for Jeff Davis.
Yeah, I do the best I can.
It's a very, very hard job, but I'm so, so psyched to be here.
Thanks, man.
I'm still unsure of whether or not I want, you know,
like, do we want the people in the house
to be laughing and clapping or?
Yeah.
No.
Well, you don't have to. You can have your own opinion.
Right, exactly.
Who am I?
Just subbing right now.
I probably should just wait my turn.
I'm going to start my movie.
The movie's going to start in Vietnam.
Well, what music should we use?
I could whip up a nice Vietnam score for you.
No credence.
What's that song about running through the jungle?
Will you stop it?
Stop it.
Credence, man.
We could always shift gears and maybe bring up our guest.
Is he here?
That's what I heard, yeah.
That is the rumor.
All right, well, maybe I've rubbed you the wrong way tonight.
Who?
Steven Spielberg.
Or is that a song title?
I just want to get on everybody's good side
and maybe I don't have the personality or the reputation
for that, so why don't I bring up our guest?
Is he really here?
John Mayer's here.
Let's bring up John Mayer.
What?
Oh, man.
A very special Harmontown.
Yo.
Yo, yo, John Mayer coming to the stage.
John Mayer on the fucking rage, blues, rock, pop, soul.
Fuck your mama on a donut roll.
Donuts don't have rolls.
Fuck your mama in a hole.
I'm getting nervous because you're a famous lyricist.
Yo, John Mayer is here.
John Mayer is here.
Let's talk to John Mayer.
Oh, yeah.
I want to be the guy.
I want to be the guy who hears the other rapper rap
and then quickly associates other words to shout out.
Yeah.
That's an answer to it.
That's the hardest part.
I try to do that every night.
Yeah, that's what I like.
It's so hard.
Sometimes I'm like MC nubs, and it's
like the best I could pull out.
It's not easy.
Yeah, and there's so many rap songs that don't have that.
You can go back in time and just add it to all the other songs
that are there.
And people do.
Yeah.
And re-release them.
Yeah, I do it.
I think that we put out a glass for you with a lemon wedge.
I got this from my hotel room.
All right.
What is that?
What you got there?
It's a kombucha.
Oh, nice.
Do you like that?
I haven't had a type I've liked so far,
but I'm still open to it.
I quit drinking, and so I find that this
takes the place of a curiously strange bubbly drink
that I'm not sure if I like.
Yeah.
Yes, it's perfect for that.
Each sip just creates more curiosity
as to what the fuck I'm drinking this time.
Can I swear?
Yeah, yeah.
Please do.
We prefer it.
Thank you.
Sometimes I'll be laying in bed, and I'll hear it.
Eh.
And I'll be like, what is it?
And I'll turn over, and it's my kombucha bottle,
where the cap wasn't totally on, and it scares me.
It emits, like a.
Yeah, the carbonation, you know?
Eh.
Yeah, it ferments, right?
Over time.
Yeah, it gets hot.
It screams.
Yeah.
What is there?
I started washing a bottle out in my sink
that's like a drinking bottle, and I put, like,
I have a thing in my sink that emits boiling water,
and so I fill the thing with boiling water,
because I don't, I'm like, oh, I'm
getting an end run around washing things.
And I fill the cup with boiling water, and I seal it shut,
and then I shake it, and it's got boiling water in it.
And then when I unscrew it, how come it goes sssss?
Right.
What happened in that short period of time?
It's just water.
It was already hot water, but the air wasn't hot.
What is it, Spencer?
What's, is it steam?
I don't understand.
It's sizzling, like, it sounded like you were making
the sound like when you open a bottle of soda kind of hiss?
Yeah, it's like just a little one, though.
It's sssss, and I'm like, what is that?
What were you keeping from me?
Yeah, it's just got to be, like, pressurized somehow,
I would guess.
I don't know.
When you poured it in there, the air was not warm.
It probably has nothing to do with me shaking it.
It's probably just hot water steaming already.
You seal it up.
It didn't matter what I did, and then I, you.
Steam, steam pressure.
It's a platonic engine.
Yeah, I think that's it.
That's how trains are made.
Right, that's how trains work.
That's how trains work.
I don't even know.
John Mayer, we just met today.
Yeah, a seven time Grammy winner.
Whoa, looked it up.
You're welcome.
Good host, good host, good interviewer.
Yeah, how did we meet?
Let's tell the story.
We just met an hour ago.
We met, like, six hours ago.
I'm a huge fan of Rick and Morty, like everyone else is.
And I tend to dive deep when I like something.
You don't want to be the friend in my life who likes something
and then turns me on to it because I will swiftly just
railroad you with my being into it 20 times more than you
are within a short period of time.
And I did that.
And I became a big fan.
And then I reached out to somebody from your show.
Or what I usually do is I just make
such a big whoop on social media.
You know, I tend to sort of manifest my desires
by way of Twitter and just creating a stir.
And one of your producers reached out, I think.
Uh-huh.
Was that Steve Levy?
I think it was Mike.
Mike?
Oh, Mike Mendele.
Mike Mendele.
Yeah.
Oh, Mike McMahon.
Yeah, a lot of Mike's going on.
And all I need is one Mike.
OK.
Thanks.
It's a nozz, right?
Nozz, ladies and gentlemen.
Thanks, thanks.
Well done.
Thanks.
And then I met a really sweet guy on your crew
who's one of the artists.
His name is Corey.
Corey?
Never met him.
Yep.
He invited me to the taping of the season three DVD commentary.
And I came, availed myself, to actually sitting in the room
and talking on a DVD with you guys.
Here's the fun part.
I'm already aware that I'm behind the eight ball
when it comes to my name.
And certain people enjoy Rick and Morty because of the fact
it does not contain any John Mayer elements in it.
A lot of them.
Certain things just have their strength from me not
being involved in it in any way.
And I like to close that gap.
And there I was.
And I wasn't on the first commentary
that they did today.
But I was on what will end up being the very first episode
on the commentary in the sequence,
which makes me look even nervier than I already am.
But we got to talking.
And I think I found a certain familiarity
in both your intelligence and your unhappiness.
Yes.
I mean, it really is true.
I had a great day today because I met John Mayer.
And I was like, I'm not miserable,
but I don't get to complain about the things that I
have to complain about to anybody but John Mayer.
Bring him.
Well, no.
We were standing in a kitchenette eating pepperoni pizza
talking about how hard Google Autofill can be.
Yeah, I was saying that.
How merciless.
Well, I don't know that anybody searches.
Does anybody just Google search a celebrity name
to find out what's going on unless you're the celebrity?
Like, does anybody here go like, what's going on with Gaga?
And just throw in Lady Gaga and everything?
Yeah.
Like, it's been two years, I think.
What's happening?
What makes that kind of curiosity?
Oh, really?
Just to catch up?
Sometimes.
When you're a fan, I mean, I'm a fan of a ton of people,
so I catch up.
I mean, I was looking at, like, aerobics icons from the 80s
before I got here.
Yeah, but that's not by name.
Oh, yeah, I guess so.
That's a little bit like a where they announce it.
Like Cynthia Carellick?
Well, you know, it's like Denise Austin.
Yeah, sure.
Jane Fonda.
Yeah.
My mother used to have Jane Fonda LP.
You'd fall down those rabbit holes.
Yeah, that's how I discovered the Jacksons.
Because Can You Feel It was the song for the Jane Fonda.
And she would say, one vertebra at a time.
Lift it up, one vertebra.
Can you feel it, boom, boom, boom, can you feel it?
And my mother was there.
Funny way to get indoctrinated into the love of the Jacksons.
One vertebra at a time.
You're slightly younger than me, but I came of pubescence
at the height of the aerobics movement.
And that was my girlfriend shifting uncomfortable.
Is that to suggest that it served a purpose beyond aerobic?
Yeah, I wasn't the most fit 13-year-old boy in the world.
And yet I watched a lot of syndicated aerobics programs.
Sometimes I get upset when I watch porn
that I can see everything.
I remember not seeing everything and fighting with my eyes.
Well, do you know that there's a, I mean, one thing I've
tried.
I started typing in fully closed.
Or even just bra ads and stuff.
Like wanting to see beyond things is very erotic.
Or wanting to, it could be a creepier thing
where you want to see what you see every day.
And you want to sexualize that as someone who's just available.
I can get with that.
Yeah, I won't judge it either way.
But yeah, I found myself typing in.
And I found out there's an abbreviation.
It's a genre of porn.
It's C-F-N-F-N-N-M, the closed female male.
I don't know why the guy has to be naked.
That's not on my.
Because it's humiliating.
Well, he doesn't seem humiliated.
No, he's into it.
I think it's exactly to your point.
It has this sense of extreme ease.
The idea that, well, it really is the manifestation
of what you see a lot going on in the news right now.
Apparently, that's how most people
want to work in the office.
Just nothing on.
Yeah, I mean, well, yeah.
What's going on in the news right now?
Well, it seems to be a lot of that kind of sexualization
of the idea that I'm going to turn what seems to be a very
matter of fact moment into something sexual, which I think
is where the root of C, you have to work it out.
It's like a plan.
Yeah, you really do every time.
It's Roy G. Biv, really.
Roy G. Biv.
You could call it Roy G. Biv.
Yeah, most of the stuff in that folder
that I hope no one finds, it really
resembles things that are hardly recognizable as porn.
I understand.
I'm into the sleight of hand of it as well.
No pun.
I enjoy the subtle, like the game of subtlety.
I friggin' love it.
All right, well, let's pull back out to the bigger picture.
Fame, the difficulty with it.
There was a certain point where it was like,
you've got to come on the podcast,
and we've got to have this conversation, because why?
I don't know, because I'm a nurse assistant,
and I don't want to continue to have it privately,
because I might accidentally make a front.
I just want to.
But it was like, and we were both like,
as long as we don't take a woe as me stance,
it would be really funny to talk about how.
I think there's a lot to work with in it,
as your therapist might say.
There's a lot to work with you.
Follow that thought.
Do you actively, are you in therapy?
Yes.
How long have you been in therapy?
I've been in therapy for years, but my current relationship
of man versus therapist has been since 2009.
And I don't really think about it in the overall machinations
of fame the way you would normally think about it.
I don't really have that ad hoc relationship anymore
with the world.
I am subject.
Thing I do is famous.
I think I've sort of particleized it in a good way,
like over time, with kind of going up and down so many times,
or changing my name, or musically changing my name.
I feel like I carry six musical passports.
And the perfect backdrop for this
is that as we speak, the Grammy after parties
are taking place in New York City.
And I'm not there.
And that's something, that's a thing.
That's a thing.
I put a record out this year.
I made a record and thought that when I was making it,
there's no way this can't hit.
And that's what you're supposed to think
when you make something.
Don't you think that when you're making something
every time that it's going to hit?
Yeah, but I want to make sure that we can connect our,
because not being a musician, I just
want to make sure that we understand what we're
talking about, because me putting something out
versus you putting something out can be a totally different
thing.
But so not being at the Grammy after parties in New York
means very carefully, not invited, didn't attend, or?
Did not get nominated, didn't break through with my record.
And I find that actually, I used to find it really sad,
and now I find it really empowering somehow or another.
I feel like it drives me pretty hard.
The idea that at least that's taken off the table,
not to put words in your mouth, but this
is where I'm trying to find a parallel,
like stop me when I diverse through.
I'm greedy, and I want to go to every party.
I'm greedy.
I want everything every possible way I can have it.
I want both obscurity and also great, great mainstream
success.
Yes, OK.
I want the power that obscurity has.
But I want the adulation that mainstream success has.
And I find myself bouncing back and forth between those two
needs always a little bit upset in the middle of those two things.
You take the obscurity a little personally.
Makes sense.
If you're not nominated for this, or this didn't hit that,
or this charts as much as you know as an intellectual person,
that these metrics mean nothing.
You know you're supposed to know that.
Your therapist knows it.
You've arrived at all these things.
You're a grown man.
You get all that stuff, but.
And then it gets visceral because you're on Instagram.
And then something happens that triggers you to go,
oh, people don't like me.
I'm not approved of.
I'm not.
And you're like, I don't need that goal.
I don't need that goal.
This is a great opportunity for me to now not be like that.
Now, if you want, exact.
But if you want insight into the world
and how the world must work, look at what I have.
And now, I metabolize success so fast.
And I know this about myself.
I can't hold on to it.
But I have a lot of it that I could point to if I needed to.
I'm sure it's always at work, whether I realize it or not.
I'm sure the defense mechanisms of great success
are always humming along, even if I can't hear it.
And then I say to myself, if I feel this way,
if I feel a little beat down today by this thing,
imagine how someone who is 22 feels, who
doesn't have anything to their name,
that must make them like a straw house
in the wind of that stuff.
Because they grow up in an environment
where they need the likes and the, yeah.
Imagine that.
My heart breaks for that.
Like, I did this.
I sat in the interim between Craig Ferguson and James
Corden doing Late Late Show.
I did a guest host thing for three days.
I did Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
And I literally cried on Thursday night.
It made me cry because the question,
and this might sort of overlap into television, was,
and I asked one simple question of the world.
Isn't it good?
Was I good?
That was the question.
The answer told over Twitter just kept prolonging the question.
I couldn't find the answer.
And it drove me crazy.
Now, you've got the East Coast airtime,
and you've got the West Coast airtime.
So you do actually two laps around every broadcast.
You do the East Coast live tweet, and you read it.
And every answer just gets further away from you
as you keep reading.
And it drove me mad because I couldn't answer the question.
And then I realized retroactively,
this is what the friends I've had,
the girls I've tried to love forever,
like this is what people in this industry
have to deal with, is this ever-escaping answer
to the simplest of questions, which is,
did anybody like that?
Yeah.
That's the only question.
Am I a good primate?
Did I do good?
Are you ever going to kick me out?
Will you just set me up in a branch of this tree
where I can chill?
I like, yeah.
Because you get early encouragement
for doing special things.
And before you realize that special things are special
because they're not normal, and you eventually
enter a world where you realize that those special things,
they're not that special, you're just being normal.
Like, they're not that special.
They're not so special that you can be an asshole.
They're not so special that someone else isn't better at it.
They're not so special that it's definitive at all.
They're just special enough that your mom says,
I love you, when you do it.
And it might be sowing a fucking seam.
It might be your eyesight is better than 2020.
It might be jumping over a bush.
It might be catching a ball.
For me, it was reading and writing.
I was reading, and I was writing, and I was reading,
and I was writing.
And it's like you're swallowing this thread.
And you're just going along it, and you're going.
And it's all too late when you go,
I don't want approval anymore.
I want safety.
I want comfort.
And then you look around and go, oh,
I don't have as much safety and comfort
as someone whose mom patted him on the head
for being a mailman.
Well, I would amend that a little bit for me, because I have.
By the way, I lost what I was trying to say in the middle
and started riffing.
And I totally, it all fell apart.
I tracked it the whole time.
That's the scare.
You're so bright, you can even articulate.
I wasn't fishing for that, John Mayer.
You're so bright, you can even articulate stuff.
You're not even thinking.
Don't say my mind is a wonderland.
I won't let you say it.
I won't have it.
You're not an expert on it.
And if you say it, it won't be a quote
that I can take to my grave.
Don't say my mind is a wonderland.
I won't.
I won't sing it to you.
OK.
But I have fans.
I have music fans.
And songs are repeatable.
People live inside them forever.
So I have that part of it.
And I feel stable there.
However, most of my childhood upbringing I've decided
is redacted, but part of the way that I got out of Fairfield
Connecticut was by weaponizing my ability
to focus on things and write songs and play guitar
and get better.
Getting better was what I did to defeat monsters.
That's how I beat monsters.
Literally defeated monsters by getting better.
I got hit in the arm by the bully.
I wouldn't hit back.
I would say to myself, you'll see the day you want to buy
tickets to my show, and I won't let you.
Of course, to say nothing of the fact that's impossible
commercially, but you know what I'm saying.
And then someone says, you can't do it.
You say, you go silent.
I learned how to go deadly silent.
I don't act out.
I just go deadly silent and then go off in a room and do
something, and it works.
But now I'm 40, and I think I've driven this pattern
into my life where every time I feel lonely, every time I feel
like I don't have enough to keep me company, literally to
keep me company, I'll just build another weapon.
And the weapon is the music, and that's great.
But over time, and I think this is where we connect on this,
is nobody tells you when to stop punching.
You literally have no concept of what the finish line is,
because no one really knows what it is.
A therapist will tell you.
My therapist told me.
I'm still catching up to it.
She said, you're covered in weapons, an armor.
And you're just going to have to let it go.
It's not doing anything for anybody.
It's there for a fine reason, but you've got to let it go.
But I get the sense from you that seven Grammys, you're
John Mayer, whatever, man.
No, I'm kidding.
One day I'm just going to get to John,
but I understand we're at first name, last name.
The, like, I correct me if I'm wrong.
Because this is like, it sounds like you're at least
willing to admit that you're scrolling through comments
and you're looking for, you may not
be looking for validation there, but you're like,
it's like a ticker.
And I'm very curious, just in your inner clockwork,
like, when someone tries to say, someone
tries to take a shot at me, they can say you're fat.
And I'm like, yeah, that just means
I'm twice as talented as I'd have to be if I was thin.
They say you're untalented.
And I'm like, it doesn't.
Yeah, because I'm like, I want to say to the kid,
like, that is where Batman's chest plate is.
Like, you don't, like, are you kidding me?
You heard my name because I, like, this is what I do.
Like, I cannot be killed there.
You could dynamite that chest plate,
and there wouldn't be a heart behind it to kill.
But then there's this, but it's like,
there's other shit that fucks you up, right?
And it's weird, because like, someone
could call you untalented, and you could know it,
and it's like, and go like, oh, I'm not
worried about being untalented.
I'm John Mayer.
But what I'm hearing you say is that there is shit that it's like.
Because I won't stay still.
So because I don't like a unanimous vote,
I don't like unanimous votes.
It took me 40 years to realize I don't like golf claps.
I don't like agreed upon 100% approval.
For some reason, things go invisible.
It's not very punk rock.
They just go invisible in my head.
Your nightmare is obscurity.
It hurts.
It hurts to be part of the woodwork.
My nightmare is.
I'm not saying you are.
I'm saying that's your nightmare.
Not obscurity.
No, I like obscurity if there's some depth to it.
My nightmare is being placed off to the side
where everybody goes, got it.
He's indexed, labeled, barcoded, RF labeled.
We know who he is.
Off you go.
That to me, I feel like I disappear.
And so what I purposefully have done, I think,
now I can look back on it with some clarity,
is diversify so that things can never get that way.
I don't know why I do it that way.
So the only reason, now, if I went and played a show
and came back, you're right.
Nobody could say that I didn't know how to play the guitar.
But it's the fact that I'm trying
to diversify into situations that are so foreign.
Like, how do people feel about me hosting a talk show?
I'm going into such enemy territory that I think.
The Dave Chappelle moments.
Yeah, the stuff with Dave Chappelle.
Going off and doing a tour with Dave.
After enough times of getting thrown in jail,
you have to say to yourself, there
must be something about the clothes in here that I like.
There must be something in here that I like.
I mean, I'm taking that look at myself at 40.
Like, take a look at the patterns.
When things go well for you, you tend,
it's like, your hand disappears.
Then you start going, where am I?
And you do these things as markers
to feel as if you matter in the world,
because you're trying to houdini into new stuff.
Is it an oversimplification to say, OK,
our families, God bless them.
Let's not call them good people, bad people.
Let's not blame them for anything.
They weren't filling.
They weren't paying off the credit card bill.
Maybe they gave birth to people with bigger needs
that they could fill.
But in any case, everybody that I talk to,
that in our line of work in general,
they seemed to come back around to their early memories
of the parents weren't filling the bucket,
and then company would come over.
And all of my friends were the kids
that would run out in their pajamas,
and they would make an ass of themselves,
and they just loved.
Is it attention?
Is it an oversimplification to say
that what you're talking about is that attention is needed?
I'll take you one deeper.
Distinction.
I need distinction.
But distinction is defined by strangers or not,
because it seems like you could be in your garage knowing
you're distinct.
You have trophies and the ego and the self-confidence to know.
You could sit on a desert island and know
that you're better, that you could win a guitar contest.
That I always tell people, when they ask about empirical talent
level, I'm like, if this were tennis,
I don't know the ranking, but I would definitely
be at the open.
That's as far as I can understand it,
is that I'd be at the US Open.
I don't know where I'd come in.
I don't know if I'd place.
I don't know if that's a tennis place.
So you know that, so what's that distinction?
That's what you're talking about, being distinct, is that?
Well, I got it now.
I mean, when I was a kid, that's what I wanted.
I mean, the thing about music is, I guess,
the same thing with animating, not trying to put it
in your wheelhouse too much.
I know you're not animating.
Well, I'm certainly taking a lot of liberties
comparing us so you can do whatever you want.
For music, you can hear yourself do the thing.
I mean, for me, it came a lot.
It resembled very much the alter ego, the superhero thing.
Training in your room.
I mean, I have a great, great, great sense
memory of tonight being like everyone's at this party.
And I was told maybe there'd be room in the Jetta.
So Ryan has a Jetta.
And then Ryan said, sorry, I got no more seats in the Jetta.
And I'm like, cool, cool.
And I know right now that everybody's at the party.
And I imagine if I weren't sitting here talking to you,
I would be in my bathroom playing a guitar pretending
I was at the party.
Because I like it.
There's something about it.
I like, I relate it in the 80s to Teen Wolf.
Differentiation, distinction.
He's the only one, except for that,
for getting into Teen Wolf.
I want to be honest and say what I don't quite get.
I want to go back over that.
The Jetta metaphor, that didn't happen tonight.
You're talking about a memory.
Yeah, no.
I'm not a man of distinction this evening.
The image of you in the bathroom by yourself
when you're not at the party playing guitar,
that's an important because I don't know.
Maybe you're five years younger than me.
So I don't know.
A lot of shit can change in a couple of years.
And I know that I was prolific.
I know that I would fucking write for no reason.
I remember that.
But I look at musicians because it involves a piece of lumber
and lessons and things.
And when you say that you would really do it by yourself,
I'm so curious about that because are you
searching for something when you do it by yourself?
When you do you plunk out little melodies and like?
Yeah, you do it.
I do it to make sure that it's still there.
If you could fly, OK, why in the comic books,
and this is a new thought, is Superman occasionally not
just levitating a little bit?
If you were Superman, wouldn't you
figure out a way to just like, just like a person
and be like, Superman, can you please not do that?
I'm trying to talk to you.
Maybe it's the thing he does when he's bored with a story.
Just goes up a foot and a half.
And for me, I feel like if I was told by myself and others
that I'm able to perform this act,
I have a system inside of me that does it.
I need to do it every once in a while
to see the system at work so I can remember, oh,
the reason that I'm in this whole affair is because of that.
And that always sort of brings me back.
I mean, we're talking about the impetus
for doing this with your hand.
Pick a note, pick a place.
It's total freedom.
Play it, hear yourself play it.
So you can sit down and play guitar
from a lot of different angles.
Some of it can be like, fuck you.
Although I don't do that very often because I'm very blessed.
But sometimes, sometimes I get in.
And if I were sitting in my hotel room tonight,
I might have made a little smirk in the mirror
and pretended I was at whatever venue the Grammys are at tonight.
I don't know.
But I think to stay in touch with that
is what keeps you healthy and writing great music
that you desperately want people to hear.
Does doing your music live also sort of keep those demons at bay?
Oh, yeah.
And it taught me how to make records.
It's hard to argue with thousands of people.
If you're feeling shitty that day,
it sort of helps to be doing it live, right?
So that's why people stay on tour.
They don't like traveling.
Interesting.
So I'll tell you a little bit about my life.
Recently, I came off tour after a full year of touring.
And I decided no tour for a minute, no plans for a minute.
Figure it out, build a life.
And 40 didn't freak me out.
But it was like, OK, this is a real thing.
It's a real benchmark.
And so I bought a house.
It's been a while before I moved into it, but I got that.
And I'm living in a hotel.
And I realized that I have no life.
Now, you could say tiny violins, but it's a good life.
But I have no life outside of touring.
If I had a grid on a spiral-bound itinerary book,
we don't even talk about life in time.
We talk about it in place.
We say things like, that's not until Dallas.
There's no time.
It's just place.
Well, that's not until California.
Well, back in Denver.
And so my life only lived inside of that framework.
And I took it away.
And I don't have anything to do.
And it's freaky.
It's hard.
And I go, good.
Fight from there.
Start from there.
That's why I'm bumming around the city.
That's why I ran into you today.
That's why I went, yeah, I'm not doing anything.
I took an Uber here.
I wish we could help each other.
But maybe we could just commiserate.
But I think there's a key difference between us,
not that I was searching for symmetry.
But I think it's important, because I'm searching myself.
I'm going, it makes me insecure to hear you talk about being
alone and working your craft.
And I think musicians make me insecure for that reason,
because that is something they do.
And the part of a musician's career that I can relate to
is the touring part, because that is a musician saying,
as Dorothy Parker said, I don't like writing.
I like having written.
And a musician on tour is they're not
going to say, thank you, ladies and gentlemen,
for coming to this stadium.
I'd like to write a song in front of you.
They can have their own religion about the songs they've
written and the stuff they want to play from their old album,
but ultimately, it's like they're just,
that's what I can relate to.
I feel like that's how I spend my life.
But there's something fucked up about that,
because, and I worry about that, like I go, fuck,
when's the last time you actually tested yourself?
When's the last time you sat in a bathroom while the Grammys
party was happening?
I don't go home and write a story.
I play a video game.
I watch forensic files.
I don't want, I don't, I look at writing
as like this thing that I do.
Like it's like shitting a fucking egg.
I look at that with songwriting.
I look at it that way with songwriting.
But it's just disembodied guitar playing,
I just think it's the greatest thing in the world.
But I wonder if I had spent, because how long would you
know, I don't know, like this is probably
a difficult question to answer.
But how long does your career really span?
Like how old were you when, the first time someone said,
Jesus Christ, what the fuck?
14.
So I feel like if I had spent, you know,
like somewhere around there, somebody said, like, you know,
you're really good at writing essays.
You should be on the high school paper or whatever.
Like somewhere in our lives, somebody says,
hey, you could get what you want by what you got.
And when I talk to musicians, I get insecure,
because I feel like I'm not, I don't practice.
Well, I don't know that I practice.
I think I just check up on it.
You know, I mean, you're talking.
But you write songs.
You talk.
You have conversations.
You going out and sitting in a coffee shop is practice.
You literally just practiced for the last five minutes
straight.
That was just riffing.
Well, maybe that's why this, you know, maybe.
This is that.
I go in and do it to make sure that it's still there,
because if it's not, my entire argument for life is failed.
Like someone said to me one time, a great lady
worked in publishing.
She said to me, John, can you imagine being famous
and knowing you're not talented?
And I just went, whoa.
And I'll never fail to put the fear of God into me.
And when things get a little pear-shaped,
or they get, or it's not even any more like,
things are too intense.
Do you think anybody famous knows that they're not talented?
Yeah.
Those people would be self-actualized.
Like, I think fame makes you feel.
That's a really good question.
Where is the awareness?
Yeah, I mean, well, if I can't figure it out,
then how could an untalented person figure it out?
You could know it's for them.
If everyone is chanting at you, Donald, Donald, Donald.
I riffed a name.
You'd be like, well, I must be good at something.
I'm good at getting people to shout Donald.
I think the entire thing.
But then nobody else that you like likes you.
That's how you know.
Yeah, but I think we're talking about like,
Smash Mouth, or I don't know what.
I don't have enough musical.
If you told me, Smash Mouth's fucking great.
Fuck you, you snob.
I'd be like, OK, John Mayer.
But I just felt like bands that come
in and out of nowhere or whatever
to keep it in the musical realm.
And they're like, oh, my god, they're amazing.
They got a hit on the Billboard charts.
And we all go, or my music snob friends go, they're not shit.
They're not talented.
That's three power chords or whatever.
Do you think those guys are like,
they know they're untalented?
I don't think they know they're untalented.
I think they're like, holy shit, we fucking hit it.
I think we're talking about varying degrees
of knowing you're untalented.
I think they're all shades of the same thing.
By the way, the way your mind works,
very interesting because it's kind of like a Wonderland
and you don't need to say it.
But I want to give you some.
But if you say it before the end of the show, it'll be a quote.
I will.
Is there a drinking game going on tonight?
No, it's just more of an achievement on my end.
Can I do it now?
We can get it out of the way.
If you look, I didn't fish for it.
But if you want to say it, yeah, you didn't fish for it at all.
You find it interesting that a singer is just not singing
right now and is just talking.
Like the same in here is the ability to sing at any moment.
And I'm not.
I'm just talking, if you thought about this before.
I've been thinking this whole time it's pretty weird
how he's not singing.
You know what I mean?
No, but when you're around a singer, you're like,
that singing voice is not doing its thing.
It's just talking.
I guess I hadn't thought about that.
Oh, I think about it all the time.
Are you right now thinking it's weird that you're not singing?
Now I think it's weird that I can sing.
I'm just not singing.
Yeah.
A more naive person would think you were teeing up
a kind of musical number.
I am, because when I do, it'll be fun.
You'll be like, that's right.
That was in that guy's throat the whole time.
Well, what do we do?
So here I am talking.
I'm a person who's talking.
And at any moment that I want, I can go,
your mind is a wanderland.
And then all of a sudden, I just start talking again.
People wouldn't know that you were talking about me.
So if I was in the lyrics, see, this is.
OK, it's a lot of cadence here.
Hold on a second.
Dan Harmon's mind is a wanderland.
Well, you kind of said the Dan Harmon song.
OK, well, that's.
Yeah, you don't have to take notes.
Look at my face.
Thank you.
And I'm talking, and I'm singing, and I'm talking,
and I'm singing, and I'm talking.
Isn't it strange?
I think it's kind of strange.
It's weird that I could do it at any moment.
I just choose not to.
It's a little Robert Klein in it, little Robert Klein.
What are the things that hurt you?
In terms of this cloud of people,
I get the sense from you that, I don't know.
What are the adjectives that you wish?
Forget about whether or not you've
come to terms with the fact that you can't control people.
But what are the adjectives about you
that get used that really sting?
Womanizer, douchebag, anything from the past.
I find that right now, especially with the ability
to consolidate tons of information really quickly,
the blind spot is how we deal with past.
And I think everyone should be allowed a past
as a blanket statement.
I'm not defending anything overall.
But things as they exist in the past are the,
is the sort of, that's the gun to my head
in the hostage standoff between my happiness
and feeling like I've got to dig out of a hole.
And I find that the internet is fantastic at compiling
a dossier on you that fast.
With one comment, all it is is someone
who just won't let something go, or the last big signifying
piece of information they had about you was negative.
If I ask, we don't know, unless we
Google them to find out what their news is,
we don't know the goings on of everybody all day.
And that's the mistake we make sometimes.
So people might not have had an updated take on me
since 2010.
And I find it so disorienting.
I find it such a distortion field of reality
when I'm living my life in a way that I know is fair and kind
and good and advanced and improved
and finally together to have your past sort of brought
to you again in what feels like really
stark current clarity.
You have to really go, that's not true.
So you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, somebody rehashes it to build their website.
Somebody pulls something up from 10 years ago.
Somewhere in a comment thing, and you'll go up,
and it'll just, in the middle of a great thing,
a great picture and a great thing and having a great moment.
And it took me a really long time
to get to the point where I can be like,
get over it, not true.
Get over it, grow up, it's not true.
But that's how you can get me is show me
what feels like a threatening reemergence of my past.
And it'll stop me, although lately I've
found a way to just practice looking at it and going,
long time ago, dude, come on, come on, let's carry on.
This might be your fault now that you're still bringing this up.
This might actually now be on you.
I had a thing a couple days ago not
to embarrass my girlfriend, but she was doing something
that I haven't done in five years, which
is peruse the Harmontown subreddit.
And I had this Me Too surfing expedition recently.
I'm giving my master classes and apologies as we speak.
But I live, I survive whatever.
And my girlfriend was in this subreddit
where I haven't gone since way before that because no matter
what, I'm not going to see anything there that's
going to make me happy.
I'll see a million things that might make me happy,
but I'll be numb to those things.
And then one person will be like,
I wonder if I could really fucking black this guy's
eye from this far.
And that should be their domain.
But the weird thing is, and it's like,
you think you resolve this shit.
And then I had this little, it was just a little episode
because Cody got upset.
And she sent me a screen grab of an exchange
she was having with a troll in that group
and had to do with all this shit.
And I got upset with her.
And now our seam is broken.
We're not on the same page.
And then I'm expressing to a writer friend of mine
who I'm working with in that room,
I'm explaining the story to her.
I'm like, this is happening and it's bad.
And that writer, Leslie, is going,
well, I understand where she's coming from
because I did this and that.
And I'm telling this is all back straight
to this moment that was actually genuinely weird for me.
A world where I keep thinking that I'm done learning
and I just want to die.
I, like, this writer that I respect
who's like talking to me, she goes, like,
she goes, well, you know, and look, we all Google ourselves.
And I exploded.
I was like, no, we don't all Google ourselves.
I literally cannot Google myself.
Do you understand?
Do any of you people understand what it's like
to be unable to Google yourself?
Yes, I do.
It's a guilty pleasure for you when you wish you were famous,
when you hope maybe, when you think about how shitty it might
be, when you get to the point where you are choking
on your own name, when you don't want
to see your own face.
I do not Google myself and have not.
Stop putting me in that drawer.
And I wound down, I'm like, oh, shit, I got unresolved.
That's like when somebody accused you of masturbating
as a kid and you really weren't.
Yeah.
Like, yeah.
Yes, especially.
Yes, John, yeah.
That's my entire childhood.
I jerked off so many times when no one said anything.
And then I spent too long doing my own laundry.
And I come upstairs and my mom goes,
reading, plead, playboy, magazines, much,
stop, get out of my pants.
I was drying my clothes.
Exactly what it is.
You want to know when I jerked off?
It was right behind you.
Yep.
Yep, right behind.
But yeah, I can't know.
But it was like, the weird thing is that I just jumped
on this woman because she was accidentally confusing me
with someone who googled themselves.
I quit googling myself.
I think a lot of celebrities quit googling themselves.
It doesn't offer any really good information.
It gives you a really bad cross-section of what's happening.
It's like you're not really pulling out what's really
in the river.
It's only the money-making headlines.
Yeah, it's a weird.
Look at what the fuck the river is, though.
Well, now that's what I want to make sure
we talk about before whenever this thing is over, is over.
You made it sound a little bit like you're not enjoying it.
No, I am, but my well, so what I do now
is I haven't googled myself in three, four years.
But when I told you this today, when
I want to see something specific, a certain guitar
that I'm coming out with or something,
I'll put the name of the guitar in first and then my name
because I can't even bear to watch the autofill happen.
Yeah, yeah.
So and if I do, I just go, brah, brah, brah,
John Mayer, PRS guitar.
Because I can't see what comes up like that.
It might be one of the words that I've mentioned.
I don't know if I've shaken the Chevy Chase
syphilis from my autofill or not.
I don't know.
Well, that's just.
Because I won't look.
I will literally, people think I'm joking.
I'll close my eyes if there's some reason for me to type Dan.
Because it goes back to the past thing.
And it goes like that until I finish typing.
What should fucking happen online
is that every year, everything that had ever
been posted to the internet that is not
sort of textual in a reference sense should blur.
Every year, it should blur 10%.
So that when you see an old story,
when you see someone's old point of view, you can go,
yeah, but it was pretty blurry.
I couldn't make most of it out.
Because that's what happens in people's minds,
in their hearts.
Things blur over time.
Yeah, and I feel compelled to stop here and go, by the way.
It looks like because they just were not complaining.
They were not saying what was me.
We're talking about an island that you don't even
know if you're listening, whether or not
you want to get there.
And I never signed up for a, I guess
I always just thought the more attention you get, the better.
The more MySpace friends you have, the better.
Every metric is just like, well, you want more and not less.
I want to go back in time and go, no, I'm artisanal.
I want to squeeze it off and go, don't know me.
I don't want strangers to know my name.
Well, I do.
And I think it's important to square up with that.
And I think it's also important for anybody watching who's
a fan of either of ours.
I think the one thing we haven't sort of laid out
is, to what extent do we wrestle with this every day?
We haven't really given people context
as to what fraction of our lives do we deal with this.
This is a very small, I want to say that I am magnifying
a very small experience.
It's 15% of the experience.
And most of it, I almost want to say to the world,
don't worry, I'll handle it.
And it's really handleable.
What I find is interesting and sort of universal
is how much we hand off to this voracious sort
of invisible boa constrictor that just keeps consuming
our thoughts that don't have a purpose.
Waking up, I know you do the same thing.
You wake up and you read Twitter,
and something seems to you to be so cognitively wrong.
Not a bad opinion, not a bad idea,
but cognitively empirically wrong.
And you stare at the blinds until it's
seared into your eyes, the slats of light.
And you haven't even gotten a coffee yet.
And you're already trying to go, you're going, fuck.
And you're trying to get out the knot in the necklace that
is this whole thing.
And the question is, how much are you
willing to trade of your life to do that, which seemingly
has no real actionable outcome, versus I'm just
going to live a life to scale so that I can at least
enjoy some of this stuff?
That's certainly what I've started.
I came off Twitter.
I got to enjoy my life.
I feel like what Twitter is trying to do right now
are basically like full court trick shots
instead of just like, let's just work off
of basketball fundamentals.
And every day is a failure to throw the ball off
like the McDonald's commercial.
And it's like, well, we'll get them again tomorrow.
That's really interesting.
And I go, why can't you piece this out?
And the answer is because there's too many.
It's like, why can't you leave single file in an arena
if someone screams fire?
Because there's chaos.
But you could get everybody out like that.
If you just went, row one, you're out.
Row two, you're out.
Row three.
And so every day I watch the pile on.
And I go, no, no, no, no.
And it's for things I'm allied with.
But I watch the course in which it takes.
And I watch it every day.
Every day you wake up, it's a possibility
that we might get it.
And within seconds you find out, no.
And you find out there's people are getting trampled.
The only thing that nags at me is,
how do we know the difference between getting over 40
and realizing that self-care is important
and becoming old men saying, get off my line.
I don't understand why the kids spend all their time online.
I think the word that we're trying to get at is fatigue.
There is fatigue with each cycle.
With each cycle.
The difference is whether you're outputting.
The difference is whether we go into our bathrooms
and play guitar and put stuff out.
Because if you say, get off Twitter, kids.
I'm not on Twitter doing whatever the fuck you want.
And you put out a single every month or whatever.
It's like, if you're exuding shit and people
that are on Twitter are not exuding shit,
except for tweets, that's the answer to my question.
But I'll take you even deeper on fatigue.
Let's go back to the play guitar in the bathroom thing.
There's fatigue in that.
40 is not about some celebration of ordaining
how many years you've been alive for.
It's how long you've been doing, how your memory begins to,
the memory of being alive, the access you have to.
There's a certain fatigue where occasionally I'll say to myself,
just about life in general, we still doing this?
Yeah.
You ever find yourself, you go, were you still at this?
And it's not like we want to end this at all.
You just go, were you still at this?
And the answer is, yep.
And you go, OK.
It's like you see all the days line up.
And you're like, yeah, I'm at 60,000 of 140,000.
Just checking in.
But you don't even have to look at it in that numerical way.
You can just feel it.
You can kind of count cards without really counting cards.
Right, for sure.
You just kind of feel it.
It's like, were you still at this?
OK, what am I about to do?
Go make another record.
So we're going to fight from scratch to have, yep.
OK, and we're going to come home three out of four times
with nothing, with an empty net.
We're going to have to live off of something else that night?
Yep.
We're still at this.
Yep, why?
It's got to be that way.
Because it's all there is.
Because otherwise we won't sleep tonight.
We can't.
It won't work.
Like I have to risk everything.
I have to have everyone hate me.
I have to do it.
I have to prove something to myself.
Yeah.
And where I think it gets really tricky
is in relationship and family, getting a wife,
getting a girlfriend.
That takes a certain determination
that might not exist in my life like it should anymore.
Because my determination is taking
a natural dip, testosterone, determination.
It starts to just go down a little bit.
Old jazz horn players don't play as long a line.
You know?
That's true.
And vocalists do the same thing.
Vocalists.
They don't sing as like, oh, you guys
used to burn on the saxophone with bop lines for four minutes.
Go.
Bo-da-bo-da-bo-da.
And everyone loves them.
And everyone goes, that's the guy who used to burn.
And I used to burn, and I'm trying to still burn.
I think I've got two more burning things in me.
That's why I want to make sure I do on my next one.
I feel like I have one more burn.
You have one more way to burn.
You motherfuckers wish.
You know, we don't get to say that.
You wish.
We don't get to say that.
You know, we wish we had like one or two burns.
But the truth is, the universe, whoever gave us the shit,
is going to tell us when we get to stop burning.
You're going to find out mid-failed burn.
How many burns you got?
Yeah.
Failed burn.
Burn!
That's my first daughter's name.
Mid-fail burn.
I wish I could retire.
We don't get to, you know, the deal.
Yeah.
You're going to be six burns in.
I just mean like, and I agree.
I'm not saying that's not what you're saying.
But I'll always be making records.
But like, burning things, like you listen to like 21 pilots.
That shit is burning.
That's a 21, 22-year-old kid who's got so many syllables.
When you're young, you got syllables.
Sometimes I think too much.
Ba-ba-ba-da-da-da-da.
I went and I had those thoughts.
I wish somebody could bottle the smell.
And they were like, I had those thoughts.
I went that close to the wallpaper.
And those are the kids that we send to war and convince to.
Yeah.
Dark is fun, Dan.
They're brains are on fire and we go, yeah, fuck you.
You're a child that you need to be.
But I did it.
I went from, welcome to the real, what she said to me,
condescendingly, take a seat, take your life, blot it out.
And we're not even halfway through the verse.
Not even halfway through the first verse.
That's what happens when you're younger.
You burn.
You want to go out.
You want to drink.
Hi, my name is.
Hi, my name's John.
And then you hopefully, through those actions,
and you dial them in enough and get enough focus,
you go, oh, at the end of that nitro burn,
I ended up with a wonderful wife, three kids,
I got a house, I got a career, I got a thing.
The stages to which my career, the booster rocket
worked and the way it burned to stick with this burn,
metaphor till it dies out, is that I have incredible career.
I have an incredible mindset.
I got to where I needed to get to and I went, oh, there's nobody.
I forgot to pick someone up.
And then add to that the trauma that everybody feels
through the way that they live through their 20s for dating
and 30s for dating.
And I have that times 100 because I
chose, in many ways, without knowing it,
to do that in a very visible way that, in a way,
my brain is just fried from it.
That's the part that scares me.
Everything else is a joy ride.
The part that scares me is that I might have missed the boat.
And in which case, it would still be cool
because I would just be like, rich uncle John,
you could come to his island and a drone comes out
to get you first.
And you're like, you start running after the drone.
You see the drone first, like war games.
You're running after the drone?
Remember war games when they're going to see Joshua?
Yeah, there was a helicopter came.
But that was pre-drone.
If you just like your drone, you have to run after it
because that's how fancy you are.
They would get off the boat.
It's John Mayer's drone.
It doesn't come hunting you.
You have to fucking chase it.
I'm trying to make a good impression on my niece
who I haven't seen as she's seven, probably.
I wouldn't have seen my niece in like seven years.
And I'll give her the drone.
It's going to be hers.
If you chase the drone and catch it,
you can keep a John Mayer drone.
The John Mayer drone will go, you're
mine is a wonderland.
Now I'm doing an impression of people doing an impression of you.
You're bad.
The white noise, just all white noise.
That's the name of my next album.
We hear that you are a Rick and Morty fan.
Is that true?
Huge Rick and Morty fan.
I'm such a big fan of Rick and Morty
that as I watch it, I lament the minutes I've already
watched it for.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like up.
Four minutes in.
What's the, well, I mean, that seemed like a segue.
We could talk about Rick and Morty, but I actually,
I don't know, I wanted to hear, like I asked you,
you said douchebag and womanizer,
these are things that sting, which I look at as like with,
I'm just like marveling.
I'm like, it must be nice to have
being called a womanizer to your kryptonite.
Maybe it's because when you talk,
I want to fuck your brains out.
I always tell people, if you think
that I thought that I was good looking growing up,
why do you think I would have played
guitar six hours a day?
There's my, there's your answer.
I played guitar six hours a day.
If I had any inclination or belief in myself
that I was good looking, I'm sure I don't have the will
to have done that.
What are the things you like to hear?
What are the things you wish to hear?
Or when you hear them, that it's like fucking,
like even secretly, like, you're just like, god damn it,
I love hearing that.
I like when people say like, you're my Clapton.
I like, because I can use that.
That's a good, clean, linear line item way
to be like, that's what's going on.
Because you do want proof that you're
living your life in the format of your dreams as a kid.
What does that mean to you, you're my Clapton?
It means everything I tried to be, I got to it.
Because I tried to be your Clapton.
Well, because what was Clapton to you?
An incredible mix of blues guitar and mainstream music,
which not to get super technical,
but blues music isn't really an idiom of music.
It's a style of writing.
It's a compositional form.
And there's not a lot of money in blues.
There's not a lot of audience in blues.
And part of me thinks it's because blues
needs to be mixed with another compound to come to life.
And you could say, for everybody who came around,
they kind of were.
Am I right in saying Stevie Ray Vaughan
sort of did the same thing?
Yes, Stevie Ray Vaughan did the same thing.
Jimmy Hendricks did the same thing.
And Clapton is the guy who fused really incredibly
prestigious blues playing with pop music.
And that's incredibly hard to do.
To get those two organisms to live together
and not reject each other and just turn
into a blob and a Petri dish, it's really hard.
Like nine out of 10 attempts to do it,
you just end up with nothing.
So I mean, that guy stands in his own universe.
It's in the way that you use it.
Let me ask you a question.
Do you think that's a cool song?
I think it's a funny song.
The thing I think is funny about it
is that it's the only song I've ever heard that
starts mid-refrain.
Yeah, there's a couple.
It's really funny that that song just goes, all right.
It's in the world.
Normally, a song like that should start with,
sometimes you use things.
Matt Bump, sometimes the way, boom, boom.
That was a big 80s trick, though.
And then you build and build and build.
And you're waiting for him to go.
But he was just like, I just think
it's funny that the needle drops on that record.
It's like, two, three.
It's in the way that you use it.
Fuck it.
And then they eventually come around
to proving that that was the refrain.
It's like, that's not the verse.
That's the refrain.
That came from 80s producer mindset,
which was like, gotta hit him with the hook.
There's no time.
No time for this.
These kids are going to buy a Pokemon instead of your record
if you give them five measures.
That's the way it is now.
I mean, you've got to hit him with the mixtape in one song.
One, don't pick up the phone.
You know he's only one in the highway cone.
Two, don't poop in your shoe.
I got the rules that tell you three.
This is the whole record in one song?
I don't know.
I was just thinking of like, you got to get,
that song reminds me of a BuzzFeed article.
That's like.
Oh, it's like a listicle song.
Yeah.
I went skydiving in a narrow plane.
Yeah, that country has that a lot.
Here's six ways to lose weight by Friday.
Yeah, like I would make it up and it'd be like,
I went skydiving.
I went mountain climbing.
I walked 50,000 miles across the land.
We're only halfway through.
I swam across the river.
I walked across the gator, but there's
one thing that I'll never understand.
And then a completely different phrase
that just lands like unbalanced into the title.
Well, I don't know why you're not a bun for my hot dog.
That's right.
Yeah, that's right.
And you're like, wait, what?
Where was the mountain guy?
Why would you climb a mountain?
How do we get there?
Well, this was just misdirection.
Yeah.
And at the last line, it's like, but check your back pocket.
That's right.
I got your wallet.
Just taking your wallet.
I'll mix your metaphors, darling.
I'll mix them better than a gun.
I wrote a line one time.
It was just I couldn't handle it.
I wouldn't put it, you're like a metaphor I've never heard
before.
And I went, that's so cyclical because no one really
has heard that metaphor before.
And if you wondered, does John Mayer
have a theoretical limit to how poetic something can be?
Yes, that will never make the cut.
There it is, yeah.
I thought in your body's in Wonderland,
I know it's like, oh, it's your hit, and you're not like,
oh, it's also a most proud of it.
But I did think the verse where you compare,
would you say your nipples are like Epcot center?
It was, I pushed it.
I think you're pushing the metaphor.
Yeah, it's like you didn't have to go through every part
of the body and compare it to theme park.
Your toes are like a quick pass.
Yeah, your toes are like little, little, little shrimp.
And then I said, you have a langoustine pinky toe.
If you love a woman, just tell her you love her.
A lot of times, that's good enough.
When you love a woman.
That was a direct response to your body as a woman.
Brian Adams wrote, when you really love a woman,
is a way to tell me to shut the fuck up in your body
and go on and on.
You don't have to write a cheesy song about how
body parts are like rights.
Because when you find yourself lying helpless in her arms,
you know you don't need a stupid song.
I'm like, man.
Your vagina's like the haunted hotel
before they were using it to advertise the Eddie Murphy
movie.
Your vagina is the classic version of that.
I've got a fast pass to your titties.
So I'm going to eat at your naval restaurant.
You had that, Kaden, I'll take a fast pass to your titties.
It was very Western.
I took a fast pass to your titties.
I'm curious about the slo-bo tea.
Well, I'm curious about singing.
Because, well, so people just have pipes, right?
So is that genetic?
Yeah, and it actually is.
As I get older, now I realize I can't take it personally
if someone says I can't sing.
Or I go like, this is the shape my voice is in.
I literally can't change it.
Whatever my pharynx is, whatever the larynx is,
it's a shape.
And it's like the shape of a wind instrument.
So I'm very good at singing low.
And I'm very bad at singing high.
In fact, worse than ever, because I had some vocal issues.
You had surgery.
Yeah, surgery.
Like you battled back.
What's the answer?
Yeah, it's kind of awesome.
Thank you.
I looked at it like Kobe would look at it, which is like,
yeah, if you need to go into the knee, go into the knee.
If I can't play a season, I want a championship next year.
So go into the knee this year.
Would you have continued just to play guitar
if that had gone down?
Yeah, but I got to tell you I learned how much I love singing.
Because I did do that, and they're linked.
I didn't think they were linked.
Once I got my voice back, I was like, OK, with what I have,
which is still mostly capable.
When people who can sing are singing,
as a person who cannot sing and who occasionally then
sings, like in karaoke, like the rest of us,
and you have these moments where you're listening to yourself
and you go, oh, I sound a little bit like George
Michael for that one moment.
When people who can sing, do you, is there dread?
If you're in front of a stadium and you're singing,
do you, is every note like an evil, conneval jump?
Or are you just like, nah, I got this?
Some are.
OK, so when I feel like I have a well-slept reflexes in check,
I sleep on a medicated pillow, prescription pillow.
It's on a slant, I sleep on my side.
I hide it when company comes over.
But most of the time, I use it.
That's like the sexiness of John Mayer atmosphere.
The medicated pillow just bounces off.
Sorry, I have a prescription pillow.
But then you could also see, because I'm a singer.
But when I know that the facility is there,
it's really, really fun.
But singers are a notoriously sensitive, hyper-focused,
neurotic bunch, because the voice is never
the same way two days in a row.
My voice has never been the same way, any two days.
It's just a natural thing.
Your voice changes.
There are things you could go for on the record that
don't sound the same live.
And that's another thing I've come to live with over the years.
But when you're young, and it's the showcase,
and you're an LA, let me tell you this, when you're an LA
for your showcase, and you're starting out,
you're playing the club, you will get sick.
You just will.
You just will get sick.
You'll wake up that day and go, ha, ha.
And you live with that.
And you go crazy for the day.
You take prednisone.
Every singer has prednisone stashed away.
Every singer dopes in that sense.
And it's because there are horror stories.
It's up here.
Or what, but have you, do you experience these moments
where, like, what's the worst case scenario?
Because from the layman's perspective,
all we understand is, like, oh, it's like the Rockstar game
where, like, there's eight notes and you hit the note right.
And then you professionals are like, oh, no,
it's all this other shit.
But we look at it like, oh, Madonna canceled her gig.
Sorry, I'm dating myself.
She canceled her gig because she's got a sore throat.
OK, well, that's the big, but to me,
the nightmare wouldn't be canceling a gig.
It would be, is there this theme?
The nightmare is canceling the gig
because you just stare out your hotel window.
Have you ever been in front of a bunch of people
and been like, your body is a ha?
Yes, but I've learned that they really, most of the time,
can't tell.
And you interpret, right?
Yeah, most of the time, they can't tell.
98% of the time, they can't tell.
And so that's my next question.
Like, what, so it's not just this empirical thing
because your voice, I can hear it,
even though I don't even like music.
I'm like, I get it.
You can get it by the way.
I know why your voice is special.
I can hear it.
Like, you're listening to different shit,
and you're going, shit, I lost 5% of the mayor sound.
So this is the difference between having a good performance
and giving a good performance.
You can give a good performance, which means you liked it.
You liked it.
But I didn't have a good performance.
And having a good performance is in the user experience
of how it feels to have the auto mat arm go for the note,
pull it, have the muscles go reek like that,
have the air push through the right way,
have the microphone turned up loud enough,
and the monitor's in the right way,
and the thing bouncing around, the sound wave's
bouncing around the room in the right way,
and they come back to you in a way that says, you are God.
And it feels good.
That's what I wanted to know.
Because actually, that's how normal people feel, too.
When they accidentally hit a note,
that's why we sing in the shower.
Oh, I see what you're saying.
Because the shower makes us feel like that.
Do you think that every normal person to use your parlance,
do you think that every one of them
has one pet favorite line from a song that you sing
that they picked up in the shower because it sounds?
Micravello's world is a wonderful world of cameras.
Yeah.
Sorry, it's a commercial from Milwaukee.
No, but it's more importantly, but yes, the answer
to your question is yes.
People like.
Do you have one?
Is there a song, like a little line you go,
I still got it on that one.
Just get it out.
Yeah, if I can hit any, like this is dating myself,
but any Philip Bailey.
Yeah.
My Michael McDonald is falling apart as I get older.
As I get older.
But so did his.
Right, right, right, right.
I'll just learn to sing how he sings now.
I love those.
I love listening to Easy Lover all the time.
Yeah, that's why we get along, because I'm a Phil Collins guy.
We never sung Easy Lover together.
It's such the drummer's mix of that song.
Biddu-duh-duh-duh-duh, biddu-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
Because it's two, you know, doing drummers.
So you were like, oh, they had to agree on this track.
They really had to love this track,
because it starts out with big drums.
Actually, that also starts out with Easy Lover.
Yeah.
Oh, you're right.
Starts with the phrase.
You're absolutely right.
It starts with the fucking refrain.
That was the 80s thing, was like, hit.
You got to hit him.
Got to hit him with the hook first.
Got to hit him with the hook.
Give him a hit.
But I thought actually to myself,
there's a sign of an amazingly good song.
Because when I hear it, and I wonder
what it must have been like the night the artist finished it
and sat back and played it for the manager.
And imagine being like, Joel, come here.
Joel, sit down.
Press play.
And you hear, biddu-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
Dun, dun, dun-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
And Joel's like, I like it.
You're like, shut up, Joel.
How's it going?
Hold on.
Biddu-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
You're like, Easy Lover.
And you're just like this.
Yup.
That's a victorious moment.
I love the producer nod that's like, this is a hit.
Imagine that.
Every documentary where they just knew it right.
But I kind of think that, yeah, but it's
interesting to note that you feel the same feeling
that my uncle feels in the shower.
There are the, it's just that when you're feeling it,
it's more in line with a bunch of people hearing it.
But we all feel it when we, that sensation of, fuck,
I'm nailing it.
And it's weird to me, as a person who doesn't understand
anything about music or singing, like, what, yeah,
what is that?
But that's a different podcast.
I'll tell you, as a guitar player,
anybody who picks a guitar can feel the same way I feel.
It's so scalable.
It's the same feeling.
That's what makes it a magic thing.
Like, you take it home and you learn fire and rain.
I promise you it has the same experiential bliss
that my writing gravity does.
I'm sure of it.
But just imagine being like, hey, Dan,
can I tell you something?
Check this out.
Here, have a seat.
You want to go, check?
I was born by the river.
Like, the moment in a little stream.
In the strings.
Just like that river, and I'm watching to make sure
you don't get on your phone.
Ever since, gonna be alone.
That's the first time anybody's heard it.
Long time coming, and I know.
You're like, he likes it.
And then some guy goes, do the strings have
to start from the beginning?
You go like, Bobby, I told you put tambourine in it.
Bobby, Bobby, I told you put tambourine.
I told you, you're not going to hook up the recorder.
I told you, my daughter played recorder.
You know, this is for Colgate Records.
They want it minty.
This doesn't feel minty.
You're going to say river, you're going to say field.
You was born by a field, Bobby.
I miss the days where the lead singer would
talk to the drummer.
What you going to play now?
Have you ever seen the thing on YouTube,
the young ladies singing the jingles in the 80s
for the bread company?
It's a patty kick.
Patty kicks, patty kicks.
It's like 40 minutes of her doing takes on this jingle.
And your heart goes out to her, and she's just like,
she's in this sweater, and it's the 80s,
and it's VHS, and she's just in this booth,
and it's just over and over again, endless takes.
She's like, uh-huh, OK, all right, sorry.
Yeah.
Patty kicks, patty kicks, because clearly what they're
saying is give it more bread.
She's not singing about something she feels anything
about, but she's trying.
And then you just watch her reaching for it.
And she's like, patty, you know that patty kicks are my bread.
And then she keeps getting cut off so many times,
you never get to the, I guess you'd call it a bridge,
but it's a jingle.
And that's the amazing part.
It's like 20 minutes into this reel.
She finally gets all the way to the point
where you get to hear the rest of the song,
and it's like a bridge.
And she's like, because it's good bread.
You know, it's good bread.
Like, that's the velhalla you get too.
If you jump through all those hoops,
you get to sing, it's good bread.
And this poor woman, who's born with the voice of God,
everyone's getting like the creatives are giving this gift.
And then they're like, they're just
putting these actual glass boxes.
Can you give us a little more raisin on the raisin?
Because it's raisin, bread.
It's amazing.
I just think it'd be so fun.
The realism of hearing a little bit of what she hears
on the track through her earphones, just like a little bit.
You just hear the music.
You just hear that little bit through her headphones.
Patty kicks.
Run it back.
I imagine that someone like you probably
has lived his whole career wondering,
when do I get an opportunity to sing
the improvised hook for an improvised rap about just
anything?
When do I get to really let loose and just be John Mayer
on the Dan Harmon rap?
Well, I believe now that the way that I
can speak to my abilities without sounding arrogant
is to speak to my potential.
I believe that I am a man of infinite potential.
I believe that my potential is far greater
than anyone else's potential.
And I believe that.
So I don't even know what I'm capable of.
I am also just discovering.
Every day I wake up, if I choose to,
I can put my hand in a goldfish and pull out something new,
something I didn't know that I could do.
This is a super cool speech.
You caught me on the same night.
I'm feeling the same way.
I don't know if I can rap.
And one might say that anything that's
come to me that has been deleterious in any way
has come because of my belief in my potential.
Yes.
Holy shit.
It has all just been infinite potential.
And this is why I feel like I get flattened out
and two-dimensional when things go my way,
because I lose the sight of my potential,
because my potential is realized.
And I don't feel at home there.
So whatever song you have, Dan Harmon,
I want you to believe that I'm going to drop into it
with vigor and dedication, like it was my patty cakes.
Let us bring this vigor.
Give me a beat.
Don't give me time to think about it.
Oh, shit.
Yo.
Rap isn't about thinking.
It's the Titanic's not about sinking.
It's about floating on the ocean with water.
Rap is going from mothers to daughters.
The patriarchy has got to come down.
I fucked your mama so hard, I turned her smile upside down.
But that doesn't mean she started frowning.
It just means happiness was inverted for her.
My name is Dan Harmon.
I'm here to say that I'm here to say things in a rapping way.
I like to rap west and rap to the east.
I fucked your mama like a beast.
But let's talk about the earth and horizons.
I fucked your mama, and it was surprising.
I'm not trying to use the fuck your mama crutch.
I'm not Starsky or Hutch.
I'm rapping for real.
From the top of my head, John Mayer's here to help me.
I'm going to respect his involvement and not be hack.
I'm going to flow from my head down to my heart
and rap instead in a real way and rap from the soul
and do it like rock and roll.
I'm going to rap like a stream, rap like a mountain.
I fucked your mama like she was a fountain.
OK, stop.
Don't stop.
I didn't mean you stop.
I'm rapping.
Take it.
Don't you know it's now or never?
We can't do it all so clever.
We've got to do it together.
Don't you know it's now or never?
All we've got to be is clever.
Don't you know we've got to do it together.
All we've got to get together.
Birds from a feather.
They flock together depending on the weather.
When it's warm out, they go down to Miami.
They fuck your mama like Sammy, a friend of mine.
Just give me a chance.
All right, give me a chance.
Just give me a second.
We're OK to fail here.
Rap, rap.
You know it's now or never?
Tell your mama, check the weather.
Whatever we do is clever when we all get together.
Yeah, when we rap, we join together and then we clap.
And then we do it together.
Friends.
And then we're friends.
And then it's like, yo, yo, when I went, I'm rapping.
Bumble.
Yeah, no, it's fine.
Stammer.
Yo, we keep rapping.
Foot in a shoe, I fucked your mama and shot my glue.
I put it on her envelope.
And then we went off and got married.
We eloped.
I proposed to her and she said yes.
And then we went and met Hermann Hesse.
He was a Nazi war criminal, but he was fine.
He's not a good person.
But he allowed us to dine in his living room.
He gave us some shrooms.
And we went in the backyard and we looked at her hands.
And they looked like cosmic shards.
And they were reflecting the moonlight.
And we said, holy shit, humanity is United,
like loaves of bread.
Oh, shit, we're all yeast.
And we're rising up to the west of the east.
And then Herman is your daddy now.
He's been here with your mother.
And he likes to tell the world about it.
There's no harm in harming.
John Mayer.
Don't you know that?
There's no harm in harming.
He and your daddy.
John Mayer.
He could have broken the news.
Maybe a little better, but what better time
than a freestyle line to let you know that he'll
be coming home to put you in your place
via your mama's face than harming.
There's no harm in harming.
I should give you two different hooks
to choose from in the mix.
Yeah, well, we're not going to edit it.
Here's me at a different pitch.
I'm doing a different sitch.
I got my vocoder over here.
I turned the knob, and now I'm sitting in a higher pitch.
OK, we won't do that.
John Mayer went to lunch one day, and he saw your mama.
And he said, hey, and he said, my name's John Mayer.
And she said, hi.
And he said, I'm going to take you to the sky.
And he sang, your body's a wonderland.
But what about my dick?
And she said, I'm not standing in line for it.
And he said, you don't have to.
I'll take you to the front.
And she said, yo, you got a fast pass to my front.
Yes!
All right.
10 minutes left.
How it's called fast pass.
You're fearless.
As a window.
You don't let the fact that you can't think of anything
stop you from going.
No, that's the virtue of it.
You might say my mind is a wonderland.
He did.
He already did.
Well, he said it, but it was two different looks.
He said it in multiple ways.
Darn it!
He said it right.
That's beautiful.
Oh, yeah.
I gave you, there's no holland of a nana.
Yeah.
And also, we came full circle because you got to actually
do some add-ins.
I did.
At the top of the presentation, we
said, who's the dude that does the rap add-ins?
Yep.
You said it, Marvin Hess.
And I said, Sid Artha.
I dropped Sid Artha.
That was perfect.
I mean, come on.
It's hard to do.
You did it.
It is hard to do.
I mean, I'm serious.
I was thinking that whole time, you just buzzed it off Sid
Artha.
I couldn't do one.
Yeah.
It was great.
You have to be an open channel, but not too open.
I try to close my channels.
Yeah.
I try to keep the aperture just as gaping wide as possible.
That makes sense.
Why don't you guys get a room?
You know, he's not going to be back here next week.
I won't be back next week.
I didn't think he would.
Well, you don't have to cozy up to him like this.
I would say he's a guest.
I'm trying to make him feel welcome
and like he didn't make a mistake tonight.
OK.
We'll try to walk a line where you don't make me feel
unwelcome by just saying.
I love that on the night of the Grammys,
I wrote a song with Dan Harmon about the fact
that he's having copious amounts of sex with America's mother.
America's mother.
Now, this does circle back to everything
we were talking about, being disruptive, being strange.
On Grammy night, I showed up here, and we jammed out.
And my fate is unclear after this.
We'll probably win a Grammy next year for this.
That's the only reason I'm here.
So how do we put together?
I was going to say, the one thing I didn't get to is,
Dan, the way your mind works, and I love being a map maker.
Wonderlandish.
Oh, that's why I could never get to it.
There was the Wonderland smoke bomb went on.
You subdivide.
Your brain cleaves.
You take one thing, you cut it into two.
You go because it's A and B. You take B,
and you go because it's B with 1 and 2 and italics underneath.
You build, it's kind of increasingly,
what's the mathematical theorem where you just
keep cutting the distance between here and the wall
and you never get to the wall?
ADD, I don't know.
Yeah, you have this thing where you continually
keep cutting, subdividing the idea.
Jesus, John Deere.
And I like to do the opposite.
I like to lump the ideas.
And I would like, in the final five minutes,
to put things into boxes a little bit.
How are things in general?
Are you generally happy, though?
Fantastic.
I'm generally fantastic, yeah.
So you're working in the little nooks and crannies
and things.
Everybody wants to maintain and get to a healthier place.
You just seem to be more in touch with what those things are.
You tend to.
Which may be called gratitude.
Like, looking and going like, oh, here's the box I'm in.
It's pretty good compared to other people in Lebanon.
I have to put things back into boxes
if I take them out like we have.
I think it's important to put them back in and go,
so what is a great thing?
What is something you love?
What's a simple pleasure where you go,
god, I love being on this planet?
My girlfriend.
Oh, that's awesome.
Is that you an alt-right guy?
Are you going to call me a cuck now?
No, because I never fully figured out
how cuck the term applied to politics.
Yeah.
I still don't understand.
Well, what about just loving your guy?
I love my girlfriend.
I'm really happy to be with her.
I'm so excited I found somebody.
And it's not just because she's in the room.
I swear to god, she's not usually here.
She may have left already, but I really genuinely
like it's a thing that I've found, not that she's a thing.
It's just so happy.
I understand anybody would understand it.
And forensic files.
So you do.
So we don't have to worry about you being in a constant state.
Yeah, no, no.
When you're not hearing from me, I'm happy.
Hey, that's what I think is important.
No news is good news.
That made me feel better because I
tend to wear the sympathetic residue of people's problems.
The more you go into something, I track it.
My brain has such traction on things that I wear.
Like, if you ask me, what's that word that starts with a P
that's not, and I will text you four days later and be like,
are you sure it doesn't start with an L?
Really?
Yeah, I will assume.
You were going to walk out of here worried about me being
depressed?
I would have texted you not worried about being depressed
because you can handle yourself obviously here.
But I would probably have texted you other things
to try to put into context what I wasn't sure you did or didn't.
I'm truly, truly happy.
I'm very happy.
I'm frustrated at this current time with the fact
that the way out of this life is not, keeps changing.
The exit ramp keeps being updated.
And it's a frustrating thing.
But that's called privilege.
It's like, well, I just wanted to know that I could,
with five years I had a plan, and they just
keep changing the exit ramp.
And I'm like, these people.
But inside my car, it smells like pine.
Phil Collins is playing.
It's very good.
There is nothing wrong.
It's you that's changing the plan.
And that's the good news.
Well, I guess I would argue with that.
I think it's, I don't know.
You've got a strong, intelligent voice
that seems to be able to hold up against a lot of forces
that normally drive intelligent minds crazy.
I'll probably be fine.
I just didn't see myself lifting anything after 45.
I just wanted, I had this image in my head.
I thought I'd be retired by now.
Because my dad worked hard until a certain age.
And I was like, well, that was dumb.
You should do it that earlier.
Could you be retired if you had all the money in the world
you ever wanted?
Could you do it?
Yes.
Could you wake up tomorrow?
Money's in the bank, everything's good.
You couldn't spend it if you tried.
You would be OK being retired.
Do you think that's true?
No.
Look at the face.
Fuck no.
No, because you could have.
You could have.
No, no, I couldn't have.
No, I couldn't have.
You could have had about $80,000.
In LA, broke rider money, that's like 10 years.
This is like when people are like, everybody googles
themselves like, nope, can't Google myself.
I fucking can't do it.
I think it's you that moves the gold post.
Yeah, I think so.
I mean, let's not.
I mean, I like that you actually said gold post.
It's a kind of is.
You know, it's a kind of is like gold post at this point.
Oh, by the way, I don't know if you know.
You're a fan of Rick and Morty.
You know that Brandon does the voice of Mr. Goldenfold.
The math teacher.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, that's great.
Just trivia.
That's great.
I like him very much because he's drawn just a little
differently than everyone else.
He's drawn from a different kind of nomenclature
than everyone else on the show.
You know what I mean?
It looks like he stumbled in from a different cartoon.
He's based very much on a real life math teacher
I had in seventh grade, whose last name I can't remember,
but it looks like some sort of animation exchange program.
Someone from Rick and Morty is in some other like Fat Albert
Esk kind of show.
I like that his name is Mr. Goldenfold,
and the principal's name is Mr. Vagina.
I don't know what the rest of the faculty is.
Everything just.
Great Phil Hendry.
The great Phil Hendry.
All right, well, obviously, you're not plugging anything.
Hey, go to John Mayer's Kickstarter.
He's trying to start an actual Wonderland.
Just like me.
You know what, I would enjoy a couple of comments.
I'll probably go creeping around for him or like,
and this is the best I can do at this point in my life.
And someone's like, don't love his music,
but funnier than I thought, which is still
an insult to my music.
Would you really like that?
I'm really curious about that.
Would you like that?
I don't care if someone likes the music.
People have to put up a lot of disclaimers
like, actually, got to say.
For someone who like me, they have to put up
like six or seven disclaimers.
I got to say, not a fan of his music, and his past is shady,
and I wasn't into this and that.
Your body of Wonderland is dumb, but I
have to tell you in confidence that I do believe now,
after watching this podcast, that I now know nothing
about John Mayer, and I'm waiting for something positive
to come along.
I've settled all debts with the man.
We'll see what he comes out with next.
I always see the opposite.
When I see somebody go like, I love community,
and I love Rick and Morty, and I've
been trained now when I see those two statements.
Those sound like great things, but I
know no one would say that online if they weren't
about to fucking tear me apart.
That's why I like the opposite, which is, don't love his music.
He's a giant piece of shit.
I'm like, come, come, what?
And, but I got to say, funnier than I thought.
Yes.
I mean, I am super grateful for you coming by,
not just because you're super famous,
and it was like an interesting star fucker win,
but honestly, I really wanted you to come on the show
because we had a moment of eating pepperoni pizza,
and I just, yeah, you exude an intelligence
and an awareness that made me excited to talk to you,
and I bet a lot of our listeners are happy for it.
And it was, you don't do this a lot.
You're not on every podcast.
I had to write some friends who've
asked me to be on a podcast before, and I said I wouldn't.
I literally texted them on the way here, literally.
I actually honestly texted them on the way here,
and I was like, just want to let you know,
I'm going off to Dan Harmon's podcast.
I've told you know in the past, but he cornered me,
and told me that.
I had to do it, and so I just want to let you know.
So yeah, I've lifted the embargo for this
because I find you far too interesting.
I think you are diseased with your own intelligence.
We could disappear up each other's asses.
And the show title.
We have finally found the show title.
Disappear up each other's asses.
And that's right.
No, but I really want you to know how grateful I am.
That's so cool that you came out to the middle of Burbank
on a Sunday night by yourself and came here
and shared your fears and insecurities and your pride
and all the shit with us.
Like, I love transparency and honesty, and your soul
is the opposite of a wonderland.
Thank you, man.
It's a deep labyrinth.
It's a deep land.
Land.
Thank you.
Also, there's other songs that he wrote.
Yep.
Oh, seven Grammys.
Spencer, is there anything you?
I thought there was a reason he kept hitting it.
Is there anything you ever wanted to ask or say to John Mayer?
No, I just identify with a lot of the stuff
you were saying on stage.
I don't know, I have the tiniest slice of tiny internet
fame, but a lot of what you're saying
is stuff that I've wrestled with and dealt with
that the past is very illuminating and helpful.
Oh, good.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I mean, we could open that module up for an hour
and go into the mechanics of how to process what
people say about you.
But most people give themselves up in the way
they write the first sentence.
You start seeing vocabulary.
They don't realize that they follow a pattern.
We do.
We know they follow a pattern.
So most of the time, people just out themselves
as being lame in the first sentence.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Occasionally, someone will get a good hit in,
and then I'll be like, that's a good hit.
Like, have you ever gone as far as finding out
the Twitter account of the person who wrote the article
and you just think about reaching out?
Well, I always look.
I look at all of their accounts.
Because when somebody takes a shot at me,
I always, I block all of them.
And usually before I block them, I'll send them
a snapshot of their profile with their follower numbers
and then the fact that they were following me
circled in red.
And then I'll block them.
Because I'm just like, why are you following somebody
and talking shit?
You're dumb.
Your existence is dumb.
I'll tell you why.
The whole thing comes down to an Acura Integra.
I knew it.
It all comes down to an Acura Integra.
Beautiful car.
I'm sure it's a great value.
People want you to have one so that Acura keeps giving money
to the people who want you to have one.
50% of the articles that are written on these sites
that try to sell you the Acura are very important.
They're meaningful.
The other 50% is absolute garbage meant to drive you
to just nothing but sales and clicks.
Your responsibility is to figure out which 50% is which
and block out the dumb shit.
That's the challenge.
It all goes back to an Acura Integra.
That's true.
All right.
That's the closer.
Let's fucking close the show.
I'm not going to monopolize it.
John Mayer, ladies and gentlemen, thank him for coming.
Thank you very much.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
And let's end our podcast.
Let's all go do things that are relatively important,
like going to bed with Cody.
All right.
I'm going to drive home and think about the worst thing I said.
It's going to get in my head.
It's going to corkscrew.
It's going to say, John, fuck you.
There's some things you just shouldn't do.
You're going to run the whole transcript through that brick.
You call the brain.
And then you're going to complain.
You're going to ask if you can take it out.
The next time they put it up on the net,
you're going to say, uh, that thing I'd rather forget.
Can we take the rap out?
We do it yet?
I just don't want to hear from people telling me
that there was something I said, that they could get
the smell on me, that I was trying too hard in the backyard.
I bought the milkshake, but it had lard.
And it was all curdled.
Yeah, I don't want to be that way.
So I think I did it right.
But now that I did, that's why I kept rapping tonight.
So when I get in the car, I think about the rap.
This is the thing that I did that's crap,
to make it off balance, to make it strange.
It's got to be strange.
So tomorrow is a new day, a new direction, a new way.
I got to improve.
I got to change.
I did it too well tonight.
That wraps my brain.
I got to get in the tub and wonder
what I can write to tell you.
Can you take a couple things out tonight?
Because I don't like two legs.
I don't like four legs.
I don't like even pecs.
I like shit missing.
That's when my brain goes, listen, out.
Ooh, opioid love, uh, up there in the tub, uh.
Holy fuck, John, you just blew our fucking mind.
You buried the lead.
You fucking rap good.
I'm embarrassed that I did it in front of you.
You can never come back again.
That was amazing.
Fuck you.
That was awesome.
It's a nice guitar part.
It's a tasty guitar part.
I repressed that Ableton button.
It's real good.
Go.
This is how fast you rap.
You're rapping everything fast.
You can only rap the fast if you talk jibberish.
You can't talk rap from the outside.
You just rap this fast and you're making it up.
You can rap fast.
I can't freestyle.
That's fucking crazy.
Oh, took it out.
Took it out.
Hello, 80s.
Boop, boop, boop.
That's not even the right key.
Some Sadi Rollins shit back there.
What time is your massage scheduled for?
Thanks so much, everyone.
Good night.
It's been a long day.
How are you?
I'm good.
You're good.
Good night, we don't want you to take chances, drive fast.
Yeah, thanks to Steve Levy, thanks to Kris Boruff,
Zach the Audio Maniac, Sarah Hill,
Nolan Fabricius, Kevin Day, Brandon, our guest comptroller.
Of course, Dan Harmon, John Mayer, thank you so much.
Drive fast, take chances.
Good night.
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show!